my name is James Kearney and this is the
old stone church in Rhinebeck New York
now this was built in the late 1700s on
the site of an old log church and I
wanted to do a watercolor painting here
just because there's so much age to the
cemetery there are a lot of graves that
go all the way back to the early German
settlers here some of the graves are not
too well tended the receiving vault is
kind of overgrown but what interested me
was a view back toward the church
through a thicket of overgrown lilacs to
try to capture some of the gloom in the
melancholy of the place here on this
December day it's a fairly warm day out
so I'm able to work in watercolor
painting this place makes me think about
all the lives that have been laid to
rest here the young mothers who died in
childbirth the young men who died in war
the babies who died of disease and I
think of the frenzy of our lives that
erase from one routine to another so as
I do a picture I want to drain some of
the color out of the scene to try to
suggest its eternal permanence the
unchanging hues of the graveyard
here and there I could use colored
pencil to draw some details draw some
textures like leaves branches or the
lichen on the stones I can't help but
wonder who were each of these people who
remembers them what did they leave
behind them what part of their lives
remains immortal
you